---
layout: post
title: "Symbolic Integer Sorting with SMT"
excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"
tags:
  - computics
  - SMT solver
  - CVC4
  - Racket
---

I'm TAing a programming languages course, and I'm currently taking a course on formal verification.
So far it's been about applications of BDD comparators and SAT solvers, which is fine and dandy, but this week's assignment is more open-ended.
In short, it could be summarized as:

> In a reasonable, procedural language of your choice, write a program that sorts integers, and use an SMT solver to verify that the output will always be in order.

And further down the assignment page, it says:

> In the past, I don't think anyone successfully verified a program sorting more than 13 or so integers.

Is that a challenge I hear?
It's a challenge to me.
But not for the fastest solution, or the smallest, or the cleanest, or the most comprehensive, oh no.
I'm going to overengineer this and go for the most _elaborate_ solution.

<!--more-->

Mind you, "more elaborate than expected" is a pretty low bar, since [this assignment](https://www.cs.ubc.ca/~ajh/courses/cpsc513/assign-smt/index.html) explicitly states that:

> ...you are NOT required to have your program parse and analyze your sorting program...
>
> I have always intended to ... write a symbolic execution engine for a simple programming language, and this would generate queries to the SMT solver. However, this would require me to make up a simple programming language and write up a parser and interpreter for it ...

At first, I was just going to write my sorting function in Racket, which is obviously capable of being a reasonable, procedural language, but upon seeing that last note I just _knew_ I had do it that way. But still in Racket.